Hi, and welcome back to the course.
In this video, we're going to be installing PyCharm
on Windows.
The best thing to do is to go over to jetbrains.com,
then hover over the tools and find PyCharm.
The website may change a little bit over time.
I'm sure you can get to the PyCharm website anyway.
Then go ahead and find a way to download it,
and what we're gonna download is the Community Edition.
Community Edition is the free version of PyCharm.
Professional is the paid version.
The Community Edition is plenty powerful
for everything we're gonna do in this course and much more.
So don't worry about getting the Professional Edition.
You really don't need it yet.
And make sure you've selected Windows as well, of course,
although it should be the default
and then go ahead and download it.
Once it's downloaded, just instal it
as you would with any other programme.
There's nothing special in the installation process.
And you can then go ahead and launch it.
So it'll open and launch up like this,
and it may ask you if you want to import settings
from a previous installation.
You don't have to say yes.
It may also ask you about your colour scheme that you want
and you can choose either a dark theme or a white theme,
and I've gone for the white theme here
just because it's a bit easier to see.
But of course, you can choose whatever you want.
Then you have this window
and we can go ahead and create a new project.
And the first thing to do is to decide
where you're gonna put your project.
So it doesn't matter where you choose to put it.
You can just select any folder you want,
and in my case, I'm gonna select the folder called Students
because we're gonna build a student registration,
student grading system in this section.
Then go ahead and open up
the little project interpreter dropdown
and go ahead and selected Existing interpreter.
Don't worry about this environment stuff.
We're gonna look at that later on in the course.
For now, go for Existing interpreter,
and then if nothing appears here,
go ahead and press the three dots
and then go ahead and select System interpreter
and find the interpreter there.
Okay, so here we've got Python 37, 3.7.
If nothing appears here either,
it's because when you installed Python,
you didn't select Add Python to path.
So you can go ahead and uninstall Python,
then reinstall it.
Make sure to select the checkbox to add it to path.
And if you do that and it still doesn't appear,
then you can select the three dots
and find the installation folder where Python is.
So in my case, that's under C:\Users\Jose\AppData\
LocalPrograms\Python\Python37\python.exe.
And that's the default, so if you didn't change it
when you installed Python, it'll be in a place
very similar to this, of course not Jose, but your account,
but other than that, it should still be in AppData,
LocalPrograms, Python, Python37.
So I'm sure you can find that.
And once that's selected, just press OK,
and that will add the interpreter here
and you can press Create.
And that's it.
Once you press Create, the project will open up
and you can have your tips of the day there.
Sometimes you get something interesting,
so you can read that.
And you've got your folder in here, the Students folder,
which is our project folder.
In here, you can always add new files
and Python files and so forth
but we're going to look at how to do that
throughout the rest of the course.
So don't worry.
Let's move on to the next video and I'll see you there.